Getting Started With Burp Suite

Burp Suite is an integrated platform for performing security testing of web applications. It is not a point-and-click tool,
but is designed to be used by hands-on testers to support the testing process. With a little bit of effort,
anyone can start using the core features of Burp to test the security of their applications. 
Some of Burp's more advanced features will take further learning and experience to master. 
All of this investment is hugely worth it - Burp's user-driven workflow is by the far the most 
effective way to perform web security testing, and will take you way beyond the capabilities of 
any conventional point-and-click scanner. Burp is intuitive and user-friendly, and the best way 
to start learning is by doing. These steps will get you started with running Burp and using its 
basic features. You can then read on deeper into the documentation to become more proficient in 
using this supremely powerful tool.

Note: Using Burp Suite may result in unexpected effects in some applications. 
Until you are fully familiar with its functionality and settings, you should only 
use Burp Suite against non-production systems. 


Display Settings

The first time you run Burp, it is worth taking a moment to check your display settings. 
Burp lets you select different sized fonts for different parts of the UI, and you may want 
to change these settings, depending on your screen resolution.

First, look at the text shown in Burp's menus, tab captions, buttons and other text. 
If you want to change the main UI font size, go to the Options tab, then go to the 
Display sub-tab, and edit the font size in the User Interface section. 
Then restart Burp and check whether the new font is suitable.

Second, go to the Repeater tab and look at the HTTP message shown in the request panel. 
If you want to change the font size for HTTP messages, go to the Options tab, then go 
to the Display sub-tab, and edit the font size in the HTTP Message Display section. 
Then go back to the Repeater tab and check whether the new font is suitable 
(there is no need to restart).


Configuring Your Browser

Burp is designed to be used alongside your browser. Burp functions as an HTTP proxy server, 
and all HTTP/S traffic from your browser passes through Burp. To do any kind of testing 
with Burp, you need to configure your browser to work with it.

Firstly, you need to confirm that Burp's Proxy listener is active and working. 
Go to the Proxy tab, then the Options sub-tab, and look in the Proxy Listeners section. 
You should see an entry in the table with the checkbox ticked in the Running column, 
and "127.0.0.1:8080" showing in the Interface column. If this is not the case, try pressing 
the "Restore defaults" button to the left of the panel. If the listener is still not running, 
then Burp was not able to open the default Proxy listener port (8080). 
You will need to select the table entry, click "Edit", and change the port 
number of the listener to a different number. See the Proxy listeners help for more details.

Secondly, you need to configure your browser to use the Burp Proxy listener as its HTTP proxy server. 
To do this, you need to change your browser's proxy settings to use 
the proxy host address (by default, 127.0.0.1) and port (by default, 8080) 
for both HTTP and HTTPS protocols, with no exceptions. The details of how to do 
this vary by browser and version, but are roughly as follows:

    Chrome - The Chrome browser picks up the HTTP proxy 
    settings configured on the host computer. If you are 
    using Chrome, you can open your computer's built-in browser 
    and follow the instructions for configuring that. 
    If you aren't sure where the built-in proxy settings are, 
    open Chrome, go to the Customize menu, select Settings, 
    click on "Show advanced settings", and click the 
    "Change proxy settings ..." button. This will open 
    the relevant configuration options for your host computer.
    
    
    Firefox - Note: If you are using Firefox and you have 
    the Plug-n-hack plugin installed in Firefox, you can 
    configure your browser to work with Burp automatically. 
    Using your browser, visit the URL of your Proxy listener 
    (as identified above - for example: http://127.0.0.1:8080) 
    and following the "Plug-n-hack" link.
    
    If you do not have the Plug-n-hack plugin installed in Firefox, 
    go to the Firefox menu, click on Options, click on Advanced, 
    go to the Network tab, and click on the Settings button 
    in the Connection section. Select the "Manual proxy configuration" 
    radio button. Enter your Burp Proxy listener address in the "HTTP proxy" 
    field (by default, 127.0.0.1). Enter your Burp Proxy 
    listener port in the "Port" field (by default, 8080). 
    Make sure the "Use this proxy server for all protocols" box is checked. 
    Delete anything that appears in the "No proxy for" field. 
    Then click "OK" to close all of the options dialogs.
    
    Safari - Go the Safari menu, click on Preferences, 
    click on Advanced, and by the Proxies label click the 
    "Change Settings" button. This will open the 
    Network configuration settings for your current network adapter. 
    In the Proxies tab, check the "Web Proxy (HTTP)" box, and enter 
    your Burp Proxy listener address in the "Web Proxy Server" 
    field (by default, 127.0.0.1), and your Burp Proxy listener 
    port in the (unlabeled) port field (by default, 8080). 
    Ensure the "Bypass proxy settings for these Hosts & Domains" 
    box is empty. Repeat these steps for the "Secure Web Proxy (HTTPS)" 
    checkbox. Click "OK" and "Apply" and close the open dialogs.

When you've configured your browser, you need to test that it is working properly. 
With Burp running, in your browser go to any HTTP URL (don't use HTTPS for the moment). 
Your browser should sit waiting for the request to complete. In Burp, go to the Proxy tab, 
and then the Intercept sub-tab. These tabs should be highlighted, and there should be 
an HTTP request showing in the main panel. Click on the "Intercept is on" button so that 
it says "Intercept is off". Go back to your browser, and you should (shortly) see the URL 
you requested being loaded in the normal way. If things aren't working in the way described, 
please refer to the troubleshooting help.

Finally, you need to configure your browser to be able to send HTTPS requests through Burp 
without any problems. This step isn't strictly necessary to use Burp in a basic way or 
only for non-HTTPS URLs, but it only needs to be done once and is necessary to get the
most out of Burp when testing applications that use HTTPS. 
The reason for this requirement is that Burp breaks SSL connections 
between your browser and destination web servers, 
in order to view and modify the plain contents of HTTPS messages. 
SSL is designed to prevent this happening, and so by default your browser 
will show a security warning when you visit an HTTPS URL using Burp. 
To ensure that applications using HTTPS function properly, you need to install 
Burp's Certificate Authority (CA) SSL certificate in your browser trust store. 
For detailed help on doing this, please refer to the help on installing 
Burp's CA certificate. When you have done this, you can confirm things are 
working properly by closing all your browser windows, opening a new browser 
and visiting any HTTPS URL. The browser should not display any security warnings, 
and the page should load in the normal way (you will need to turn off interception 
again in the Proxy Intercept tab if you have re-enabled this).
The Basics of Using Burp

Once you have Burp running, and have configured your browser to work with Burp, 
go to the Proxy Intercept tab, and ensure that interception is turned on 
(if the button says "Intercept is off" then click it to toggle the interception status).
Then go to your browser and visit any URL.

Each HTTP request made by your browser is displayed in the Intercept tab. 
You can view each message, and edit it if required. You then click the 
"Forward" button to send the request on to the destination web server. 
If at any time there are intercepted messages pending, 
you will need to forward all of these in order for your browser to 
complete loading the pages it is waiting for. You can toggle the 
"Intercept is on / off" button in order to browse normally without 
any interception, if you require. For more help, see Getting started 
with Burp Proxy.

As you browse an application via Burp, the Proxy history keeps 
a record of all requests and responses. In the Proxy, go to 
the History tab and review the series of requests you have made. 
Select an item in the table and view the full messages in the Request and Response tabs.

Also, as you browse, Burp builds up a site map of the target application. 
Go to the Target tab, and the Site Map sub-tab, to view this. 
The site map contains all of the URLs you have visited in your 
browser, and also all of the content that Burp has inferred from 
responses to your requests (e.g. by parsing links from HTML responses). 
Items that have been requested are shown in black, and other items are shown in gray. 
You can expand branches in the tree, select individual items, 
and view the full requests and responses (where available). 
For more help, see Using the Target tool.

Burp Suite is designed to be a hands-on tool, 
where the user controls the actions that are performed. 
At the core of Burp's user-driven workflow is the ability to pass HTTP 
requests between the Burp tools, to carry out particular tasks. 
You can send messages from the Proxy intercept tab, the Proxy history, 
the site map, and indeed anywhere else in Burp that you see HTTP messages. 
To do this, select one or more messages, and use the context 
menu to send the request to another tool. 
